# X.1 Introduction

You can argue that programming is an art, a craft, a science, or even a branch of mathematics. In any case, it inovolves some practical skills that cannot be learned simply by reading a book. The skills have to be learned by trying to apply the principles and techniques learned from books, articles, lectures, etc.

This "appendix" contains exercises for the readers of TC++PL. They are sorted by chapter and within a chapter roughly by difficulty. The exercises are mainly of the write-a-program variety. Always write enough code for a solution to be compiled and run with at least a few test cases.

The exercises vary considerably in difficulty, so they are marked with an estimate of their difficulty. The scale is exponential so that if a (∗1) exercise takes you ten minutes, a (∗2) might take an hour, and a (∗3) might take a day. The time needed to write and test a program depends more on your experience than on the exercise itself. A (∗1) exercise might take a day if you first have to get acquainted with a new computer system in order to run it. On the other hand, a (∗5) exercise might be done in an hour by someone who happens to have the right collection of programs handy. Manyof the exercises marked (∗1) and (∗2) can be thought of as similar to the drills that musicians, athletes, and learners of a new natural language do to prevent unfamiliarity with simple subtasks from impeding the performance of more challenging tasks. They are not intellectual challenges in their
own right.

Any book on programming in C can be used as a source of extra exercises for Part II (The
basics; Chapters 6-15). Any book on data structures and algorithms can be used as a source of exercises for Parts III (Abstraction Mechanisms; Chapters 16-29) and IV (The Standard Library; Chapters 30-44).

I place this collection of exercises on the web because
- I do want to add another 80 pages to an already thick book.
- I want to add more exercises over the years.
- I hope readers will suggest improvements and new exercises so that eventually the set of
exercises will be massive – more extensive and useful than I could make it on my own.

I cannot promise the numbering of exercises to be stable as I add exercises. I plan for relative stability after an initial peiod of major changes, but for now expect details of numbering to change.