# X.10 Statements

1. (∗1) Rewrite the following `for`-statement as an equivalent `while`-statement:
```cpp
for (i=0; i!=max_length; i++)
	f (input_line[i] == '?')
	quest_count++;
```
Rewrite it to use a pointer as the controlled variable, that is, so that the test is of the form `∗p=='?'`. Rewrite it to use a range-`for`.

2. (∗1) See how your compiler reacts to these errors:
```cpp
void f(int a, int b)
{
	if (a = 3) // ...
	if (a&077 == 0) // ...
	a := b+1;
}
```
Devise more simple errors and see how the compiler reacts.

3. (∗1.5) What does the following example do?
```cpp
void send(int∗ to, int∗ from, int count)
	// Duff 's device. Helpful comment deliberately deleted.
{
	int n = (count+7)/8;
	switch (count%8) {
	case 0: do { ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 7: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 6: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 5: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 4: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 3: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 2: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
	case 1: ∗to++ = ∗from++;
		} while (−−n>0);
	}
}
```
Why would anyone write something like that? No, this is not recommended as good style.

4. (∗2) Write a function `atoi(const char∗)` that takes a C-style string containing digits and returns the corresponding `int`. For example, `atoi("123")` is `123`. Modify `atoi()` to handle C++ octal and hexadecimal notation in addition to plain decimal numbers. Modify `atoi()` to handle the C++ character constant notation.

5. (∗2) Write a function `itoa(int i, char b[])` that creates a string representation of `i` in `b` and
returns `b`.

6. Modify `iota()` from the previous exercise to take an extra ‘‘string length’’ argument to make
overflow less likely.

7. (∗2.5) Write a program that strips comments out of a C++ program. That is, read from `cin`, remove both `//` comments and `/∗ ∗/` comments, and write the result to `cout`. Do not worry
about making the layout of the output look nice (that would be another, and much harder, exercise). Do not worry about incorrect programs. Beware of `//`, `/∗`, and `∗/` in comments, strings, and character constants.

8. (∗2) Look at some programs to get an idea of the variety of indentation, naming, and commenting styles actually used.