# X.11 Expressions

1. (∗1) Fully parenthesize the following expressions:
```cpp
a = b + c ∗ d << 2 & 8
a & 077 != 3
a == b || a == c && c < 5
c = x != 0
0 <= i < 7
f(1,2)+3
a = − 1 + + b −− − 5
a = b == c ++
a = b = c = 0
a[4][2] ∗= ∗ b ? c: ∗ d ∗ 2
a−b,c=d
```

2. (∗2) Read a sequence of possibly whitespace-separated (name,value) pairs, where the name is a single whitespace-separated word and the value is an integer or a floating-point value. Compute and print the sum and mean for each name and the sum and mean for all names. Hint: §10.2.8.

3. (∗1) Write a table of values for the bitwise logical operations (§11.1.1) for all possible combinations of `0` and `1` operands.

4. (∗2) Write 5 expressions for which the order of evaluation is undefined. Execute them to see
what one or – preferably – more implementations do with them.

5. (∗1.5) What happens if you divide by zero on your system? What happens in case of overflow and underflow?

6. (∗1) Fully parenthesize the following expressions:
```cpp
∗p++
∗−−p
++a−−
(int∗)p−>m
∗p.m
∗a[i]
```

7. (∗2) Implement and test these functions: `strlen()`, which returns the length of a C-style string; `strcpy()`, which copies a C-style string into another; and `strcmp()`, which compares two C-style strings. Consider what the argument types and return types ought to be. Then compare your functions with the standard library versions as declared in `<cstring>` (`<string.h>`) and as specified in §43.4.

8. (∗2) Modify the program from §X.11[3] to also compute the median.

9. (∗2) Write a function `cat()` that takes two C-style string arguments and returns a string that is the concatenation of the arguments. Use `new` to find store for the result.

10. (∗2) Write a function `rev()` that takes a C-style string argument and reverses the characters in it. That is, after `rev(p)` the last character of `p` will be the first, etc.

11. (∗2) Type in the calculator example and get it to work. Do not "save time" by using an already entered text. You’ll learn most from finding and correcting "little silly errors."

12. (∗2) Modify the calculator to report line numbers for errors.

13. (∗3) Allow a user to define functions in the calculator. Hint: Define a function as a sequence of operations just as a user would have typed them. Such a sequence can be stored either as a character string or as a list of tokens. Then read and execute those operations when the function is called. If you want a user-defined function to take arguments, you will have to invent a notation for that.

14. (∗1.5) Convert the desk calculator to use a `symbol` structure instead of using the static variables `number_value` and `string_value`.