# X.14 Exception Handling

1. (∗3) Write a `Checked_ptr<T>` that uses exceptions to signal run-time errors for a pointer supposed to point to an element of an array (or one-beyond-the-end-of the array).

2. (∗3) Write a function that searches a binary tree of nodes based on a `char∗` field for a match. If a node containing `hello` is found, `find("hello")` will return a pointer to that node. Use an exception to indicate "not found."

3. (∗3) Define a class `Int` that acts exactly like the built-in type `int`, except that it throws exceptions rather than overflowing or underflowing.

4. (∗2.5) Take the basic operations for opening, closing, reading, and writing from the C interface to your operating system and provide equivalent C++ functions that call the C functions but throw exceptions in case of errors.

5. (∗2.5) Write a complete `Vector` template with `Range` and `Size` exceptions.

6. (∗1) Write a loop that computes the sum of a `Vector` as defined in §X.14[5] without examining the size of the `Vector`. Why is this a bad idea?

7. (∗2.5) Consider using a class `Exception` as the base of all classes used as exceptions. What should it look like? How should it be used? What good might it do? What disadvantages might result from a requirement to use such a class?

8. (∗1) Given:
```cpp
int main() { /* ... */ }
```
Change it so that it catches all exceptions thrown from the `...`, turns them into error messages, and `abort()`s.

9. (∗2) Write a class or template suitable for implementing callbacks.

10. (∗2) Write a program consisting of functions calling each other to a calling depth of 10. Give each function an argument that determines at which level an exception is thrown. Have `main()` catch these exceptions and print out which exception is caught. Don’t forget the case in which an exception is caught in the function that throws it.

11. (∗2) Modify the program from §X.14[10] to measure if there is a difference in the cost of catching exceptions depending on where in the function call stack the exception is thrown. Add a string object to each function and measure again.

12. (∗2) Write a function that either returns a value or that throws that value based on an argument. Measure the difference in run-time between the two ways.

13. (∗2) Modify the calculator version from §X.15[2] to use exceptions. Keep a record of the mistakes you make. Suggest ways of avoiding such mistakes in the future.

14. (∗2.5) Write `plus()`, `minus()`, `multiply()`, and `divide()` functions that check for possible overflow and underflow and that throw exceptions if such errors happen.

15. (∗2) Modify the calculator to use the functions from §X.14[14].