# X.18 Construction, Cleanup, Copy, and Move

1. (∗2) Implement the functions of the "cannonical complete class" `X` from §17.1 to do noting but print out their name and the address of their object (and of their argument where applicable). Now test `X` by defining variables, members, objects on the free store, passing arguments, etc.

2. (∗2) Define a resource handle, a "smart pointer" that holds a pointer to an object on the free store passed as an argument to a constructor. "Forget" to define copy operations. Now test the handle by defining variables, members, objects on the free store, passing arguments, etc., and see where leaks occur.

3. (∗1.5) When do you need a constructor? When do memberwise construction suffice? When is memberwise construction preferable?

4. (∗1) Design, implement and test a `Vector` class with an initializer-list constructor and no constructor that takes a integer as a size. Instead, give it a constructo that takes a `Count` type, so that you can’t get ambiguities between and integer number of elements and an integer element value.

5. (∗3) Write an extremely simple document editor with only three commands: "Insert a `string` as line number n," "delete line n," and "undo the last (non-undo) operation." In addition, provide a cursor to a character in the document (or one beyond the last character) that can be moved forwards and backwards. Do not let any command lead to an invalid cursor. Hint: §17.5.1.3.

6. (∗3) Implement a simple `Matrix` along the lines of the one in §17.5.2. Measure the performance of an addition of 1000-by-1000 matrices with and without move operations. If you did not have the option of adding move operations, what would you do?