# X.19 Overloading

1. (∗2) In the following program, which conversions are used in each expression?
```cpp
struct X {
	int i;
	X(int);
	X operator+(int);
};
struct Y {
int i;
	Y(X);
	Y operator+(X);
	operator int();
};
extern X operator∗(X, Y);
extern int f(X);
X x = 1;
Y y = x;
int i = 2;
int main()
{
	i + 10;
	y + 10;
	y + 10 ∗ y;
	x + y + i;
	x ∗ x + i;
	f(7);
	f(y);
	y + y;
	106 + y;
}
```
Modify the program so that it will run and print the values of each legal expression.

2. (∗2) Complete and test class `String` from §19.3.

3. (∗2) Define a class `INT` that behaves exactly like an `int`. Hint: Define `INT::operator int()`.

4. (∗1) Define a class `RINT` that behaves like an `int` except that the only operations allowed are `+` (unary and binary), `−` (unary and binary), `∗`, `/`, and `%`. Hint: Do not define RINT::operator int().

5. (∗3) Define a class `LINT` that behaves like a `RINT`, except that it has at least 64 bits of precision.

6. (∗4) Define a class implementing arbitrary precision arithmetic. Test it by calculating the factorial of `1000`. Hint: You will need to manage storage in a way similar to what was done for class `String`.

7. (∗2) Write a program that has been rendered unreadable through use of operator overloading and macros. An idea: Define `+` to mean `−` and vice versa for `INTs`. Then, use a macro to define `int` to mean `INT`. Redefine popular functions using reference type arguments. Writing a few misleading comments can also create great confusion.

8. (∗3) Swap the result of §X.19[7] with a friend. Without running it, figure out what your friend’s program does. When you have completed this exercise, you’ll know what to avoid.

9. (∗2) Define a type `Vec4` as a vector of four `float`s. Define `operator[]` for `Vec4`. Define operators `+`, `−`, `∗`, `/`, `=`, `+=`, `−=`, `∗=`, and `/=` for combinations of vectors and floating-point numbers.

10. (∗3) Define a class `Mat4` as a vector of four `Vec4`s. Define `operator[]` to return a `Vec4` for `Mat4`. Define the usual matrix operations for this type. Define a function doing Gaussian elimination for a `Mat4`.

11. (∗2) Define a class `Vector` similar to `Vec4` but with the size given as an argument to the constructor `Vector::Vector(int)`.

12. (∗3) Define a class `Matrix` similar to `Mat4` but with the dimensions given as arguments to the constructor `Matrix::Matrix(int,int`).

13. (∗1) Given two structures:
```cpp
struct S { int x, y; };
struct T { char∗ p; char∗ q; };
```
write a class `C` that allows the use of `x` and `p` from some `S` and `T`, much as if `x` and `p` had been members of `C`. Hint: pointer to member.

14. (∗1.5) Define a class Index to hold the index for an exponentiation function `mypow(double,Index)`. Find a way to have `2∗∗I` call `mypow(2,I)`.

15. (∗2) Define a class `Imaginary` to represent imaginary numbers. Define class `Complex` based on that. Implement the fundamental arithmetic operators. Define i as a user-defined literal suffix meaning ‘‘imaginary.’’