# X.20 Special Operations

1. (∗2) Complete class `Ptr` from §19.2.4 and test it. To be complete, `Ptr` must have at least the operators `∗`, `−>`, `=`, `++`, and `−−` defined. Do not cause a run-time error until a wild pointer is actually dereferenced.

2. (∗2) Define an external iterator for class `String`:
```cpp
class String_iter {
// refer to string and string element
public:
String_iter(String& s); // iterator for s
char& next(); // reference to next element
// more operations of your choice
};
```
Compare this in utility, programming style, and efficiency to having an internal iterator for `String` (that is, a notion of a current element for the `String` and operations relating to that element).

3. (∗1.5) Provide a substring operator for a string class by overloading `()`. What other operations would you like to be able to do on a string?

4. (∗3) Design class `String` so that the substring operator can be used on the left-hand side of an assignment. First, write a version in which a string can be assigned to a substring of the same length. Then, write a version in which the lengths may differ.

5. (∗2) Define an operation for `String` that produces a C-string representation of its value. Discuss the pros and cons of having that operation as a conversion operator. Discuss alternatives for allocating the memory for that C-string representation.

6. (∗2.5) Define and implement a simple regular expression pattern match facility for class `String`.

7. (∗1.5) Modify the pattern match facility from §X.20[6] to work on the standard library `string`. Note that you cannot modify the definition of `string`.