# X.22 Class Hierarchies

1. (∗3.5) Implement a version of a Reversi/Othello board game. Each player can be either a human or the computer. Focus on getting the program correct and (then) getting the computer player ‘‘smart’’ enough to be worth playing against.

2. (∗3) Improve the user interface of the game from §X.22[1].

3. (∗3) Define a graphical object class with a plausible set of operations to serve as a common base class for a library of graphical objects; look at a graphics library to see what operations were supplied there. Define a database object class with a plausible set of operations to serve as a common base class for objects stored as sequences of fields in a database; look at a database library to see what operations were supplied there. Define a graphical database object with and without the use of multiple inheritance and discuss the relative merits of the two solutions.

4. (∗2.5) Draw a plausible memory layout for a `Radio` as defined in §21.3.4. Explain how a virtual function call could be implemented.

5. (∗2.5) Draw a plausible memory layout for a `Radio` as defined in §22.2.2. Explain how a virtual function call could be implemented.

6. (∗2) Assume that the type-checking rules for arguments were relaxed in a way similar to the relaxation for return types so that a function taking a `Derived∗` could override a function taking a `Base∗`. Then write a program that would corrupt an object of class `Derived` without using a cast. Describe a safe relaxation of the overriding rules for argument types.