# X.7 Types and Declarations

1. (∗2) Get the "Hello, world!" program (§2.2.1) to run. This is not an exercise in programming. It is an exercise to test your use of your edit-compile-link-execute tool chain.

2. (∗1) Write a program that prints `signed` if plain `char`s are signed on your implementation and `unsigned` otherwise.

3. (∗1.5) Find 5 different C++ constructs for which the meaning is undefined (§6.1). (∗1.5) Find 5 different C++ constructs for which the meaning is implementation-defined (§6.1).

4. (∗1) Find 10 different examples of nonportable C++ code.

5. (∗1) For each declaration in §6.3, do the following: If the declaration is not a definition, write a definition for it. If the declaration is a definition, write a declaration for it that is not also a definition.

6. (∗1.5) Write a program that prints the sizes of the fundamental types, a few pointer types, and a few enumerations of your choice. Use the `sizeof` operator.

7. (∗1.5) Write a program that prints out the letters `'a'`..`'z'` and the digits `'0'`..`'9'` and their integer values. Do the same for other printable characters. Do the same again but use hexadecimal notation.

8. (∗2) What, on your system, are the largest and the smallest values of the following types: `bool`, `char`, `short`, `int`, `long`, `long long`, `float`, `double`, `long double`, `unsigned` and `unsigned long`.

9. (∗1) What are the sizes (in number of `char`s) of the types mentioned in §X.7[8]?

10.  (∗1.5) What are the alignments (in number of `char`s) of the types mentioned in §X.7[8]?

11.  (∗2) Draw a graph of the integer and fundamental types where a type points to another type if all values of the first can be represented as values of the second on every standards-conforming implementation. Draw the same graph for the types on your favorite implementation.

12.  (∗1) What is the longest local name you can use in a C++ program on your system? What is the longest external name you can use in a C++ program on your system? Are there any restrictions on the characters you can use in a name?

13.  (∗1.5) Write a loop that prints out the values `4`, `5`, `9`, `17`, `12` without using an array or a `vector`.